# The Rules

## Retirement Age as an Institutional Constraint
China’s retirement policy-making process began in 1951 and took shape in 1978. The retirement age is the age at which workers are typically eligible to retire. Some countries set a minimum age for allowing workers to retire. Other countries, including China, require workers to retire at a certain age.

According to the provisions issued at that time, including the Provisional Measures of the State Council on the Resettlement of Sick, Venerable, Senior and Handicapped Cadres and the Provisional Regulations of the State Council on the Retirement and Resignation of Workers (GF No. 104 [1978]), the retirement age of enterprise employees was set at 60 for men, 50 for female workers and 55 for female cadres.

And the picture below shows the world retirement age comparation.

(pic: here I get a table sheet summarizing the retirement age of each country. I need to visualize it. As far as I think, I can use a Gantt diagram or a map. But the too is an issue. Tableau may not be free for me. So I'd better use another method to convert it to a chart.)

Policymakers usually consider the demography, fiscal cost of aging, health, life expectancy, nature of the profession, supply of labor force, and more, while taking the retirement age into account. The increase in life expectancy is used in some jurisdictions as an argument to increase the age limit in the 21st century.

In *Research Report on the Retirement Age Issue in China*, published by Research Group on the Retirement Age Issue on 2011. Authors indicate that more than half of the female respondents, either workers or cadres, considered that the policy on different retirement ages for men and women was inadequate. The reasons include female staff think: 1)hinders equality of rights and opportunities for employment; 2)wastes women’s wisdom and experience; 3) decreases women's economic income; 4)hinders career development of women.

As for international, America Harris and Ulrike Fasbender[1] study shows that various factors of females would retire earlier than males. We can see the picture below, showing the reasons(pic: here I want to generate a word cloud image). Notably, in most scenarios, Women tend to leave the workplace earlier compared to men in the same situation.

Lower retirement age of females brings about several constrains for women's career path. In Women in the workpalce 2025, McKinsey conducted research among 124 firms located in Canada and the U.S., concluding that women are highly motivated—but less likely to want a promotion. Women are still underrepresented at every level(C-suite, SVP, VP, Director, Manager, Entry level) (pic: here can paste the chart in their report). Not to say, short career age will have nagative impact on women's oppotunities. 


[1] Harris, A., & Fasbender, U. (2025). Gender differences in retirement decisions and outcomes: a systematic literature review and recommendations for future research. Work, Aging and Retirement, waaf011.
[2] [Women in the workpalce 2025](https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/people-and-organizational-performance/our-insights/women-in-the-workplace#/)

(you may can research more resource to complete the following part. For insidence:https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%B8%AD%E5%8D%8E%E4%BA%BA%E6%B0%91%E5%85%B1%E5%92%8C%E5%9B%BD%E9%80%80%E4%BC%91%E5%88%B6%E5%BA%A6?utm_source=chatgpt.com)
### Gender-differentiated retirement policies (China focus)

### Historical and administrative logic

### Where formal rules meet informal adaptation


